# Command Line Basics

## Command Structure

Commands in the Linux command line typically follow a specific structure. The basic format is:

```bash
command -options arguments
```

- **Command**: The main action to be performed.
- **Options**: Optional settings that modify the command's behavior.
- **Arguments**: Data or files on which the command operates.

## clear

```bash
clear
```

The clear command is used to clear the terminal screen.   
The output is: `No output`.

## echo

```bash
echo "Hello, World!"
```

The echo command is used to display a message.
The output is: `Hello, World!`

## date

```bash
date
date -u
date --universial
```

The date command is used to display the current date and time.  
The output is: `Thu Jan  1 00:00:00 UTC 1970`. 
The -u option displays the date and time in UTC format.
Some options support the long format. Use "--" for long options.

## ncal (cal)

```bash
ncal
ncal 2026
ncal july 2026
ncal 7 2026
ncal -h
ncal -3h
ncal -A 1
ncal -B1 -A2 -M july 1969
```

The ncal (new cal) command is used to display a calendar.  
The first argument is the month, it can be a month name or a number.  
The second argument is the year.  
All 12 months of the year are displayed by default. 
If no arguments are provided, the current month is displayed.

The -h option removes the highlights from the calendar.
The -j option displays the calendar in Julian format.
The -M option uses Monday as the first day of the week.
The -3 option displays the previous, current, and next month.
The -A 1 prints the number of months after the current month.
The -B 2 prints the number of months before the current month.

You don't need to use space for each option.

The output is: 
```bash
    January 2026      
Su     4 11 18 25   
Mo     5 12 19 26   
Tu     6 13 20 27   
We     7 14 21 28   
Th  1  8 15 22 29   
Fr  2  9 16 23 30   
Sa  3 10 17 24 31 
```


