# Files & Folders

Creating files and folders on Linux. 

## touch

The touch command creates a new file.  
Update the file's access and modification times to the current time.  
A file is created if it does not exist.

```bash
touch newfile.txt
```

### Arguments 

1. -a - update the access time of the file
2. -m - update the modification time of the file
3. -c - do not create a new file if it already exists
4. -r filename – copy the access and modification times of filename to the new file
5. -t timestamp – set the access and modification times to the specified timestamp

## File Types, Extensions & File Command

Linux does not rely on file extensions to determine file types. Instead, it uses   
a command called file to identify the type of file based on its content.

```bash
file filename
```

### Bad habit

The following characters are allowed in file names:
- Alphabetic characters (a-z, A-Z)
- Numeric characters (0–9)
- Underscore (_)
- Hyphen (-)
- Period (.)

Whitespace in file names uses '\' or single quotes when used in the command line. 


## Named Pipes

The named pipe is a special file type that can be used to pass data between two processes. 
The user sets permissions for the pipe by using the -m (mode) flag or by using the chmod command.

```bash
mkfifo pipe_name
mkfifo -m 666 pipe_name
```

## Creating a Temporary File

The mktemp utility takes each of the given file name templates and overwrites a portion of it to   
create a file name.  This file name is unique and suitable for use by the application.  The template   
may be any file name with some number of ‘Xs’ appended to it, for example /tmp/temp.XXXX.    
The trailing ‘Xs’ are replaced with the current process number and/or a unique letter combination.    
The number of unique file names mktemp can return depends on the number of ‘Xs’ provided; six ‘Xs’   
will result in mktemp selecting 1 of 56,800,235,584 (62 ** 6) possible file names.

```bash
mktemp /tmp/temp.XXXXXX
```

## Folders

1. The mkdir command is used to create a new directory.
2. The rmdir command is used to remove an empty directory.
3. The rm -r command is used to remove a directory and its contents recursively.
4. The mv command is used to move or rename a directory.
5. The cp -r command is used to copy a directory and its contents recursively.

## Permissions

1. The chmod command is used to change the permissions of a file or directory.
2. The chown command is used to change the owner of a file or directory.
3. The chgrp command is used to change the group of a file or directory.
4. The ls -l command is used to list the permissions of a file or directory.
5. The umask command is used to set the default permissions for newly created files and directories.

### Parameters

1. The -m option is used to set the file mode (permissions) for the created file.
2. The -p option is used to create parent directories as needed.
3. The -u option is used to set the user ID for the created file.
4. The -g option is used to set the group ID for the created file.
5. The -t option is used to specify a template for the created file name.
6. The -R option is used to recursively change permissions of all files and directories in a directory tree.
7. The -v option is used to display verbose output.