# Commands

This section contains a list of useful Linux command line commands.

1. clear - clears the screen
2. echo - prints the arguments
3. date - prints the current date and time
4. ncal - prints the calendar
5. man - displays the manual page for a command
6. help - displays the manual page for a command, help cd
7. type - displays the type of command. cmd, built-in shell command, shell function, or alias
8. which - displays the path of a command
9. whoami – prints the username of the current user
10. who - prints the users currently logged in
11. pwd - prints the current working directory
12. cd - changes the current working directory
13. ls - lists the contents of the current directory 
14. touch – creates a new file or updates the access and modification times of an existing file
15. nano - opens the default text editor
16. cat - concatenates and prints the files
17. tac - displays the contents of a file in reverse order
18. rev - reverses the lines of a text file
19. less – displays the contents of a file one screen at a time
20. rm – removes files or directories
21. mkdir – creates a new directory
22. mkfifo - creates a named pipe (FIFO)
23. mktemp - creates a temporary file
24. rmdir – removes an empty directory
25. cp - copies files or directories
26. mv - moves or renames files or directories
27. find - searches for files and directories
28. grep - searches for a pattern in files
29. chmod - changes file permissions
30. chown - changes file ownership
31. sudo - runs a command with elevated privileges
32. file - determines the file type
33. Nano - opens the default text editor
34. tail - displays the last part of a file
